Guide for creating limited service accounts (#2935)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/6.2/operations/control-access/create-limited-service-accounts.md

For example, you might develop a service that displays a high-level view of your webserver statuses based on an aggregate check.
The service itself only needs an API key and permission to read the results of status checks executed on your webservers so it can route the check results to the status display.
No human user needs to log into the service, and the service does not need edit or delete permissions.
You can create a limited service account to provide the necessary access.

Limited service accounts are also useful for performing automated processes.
This guide explains how to create a limited service account to use with the [Sensu EC2 Handler][3] integration to automatically remove AWS EC2 instances that are not in a pending or running state.

By default, Sensu includes a `default` namespace and an `admin` user with full permissions to create, modify, and delete resources within Sensu, including the RBAC resources required to configure a limited service account.
This guide requires a running Sensu backend and a sensuctl instance configured to connect to the backend as the [`admin` user][2].

## Create a limited service account

A limited service account requires:

> - A [user][7] assigned to a [group][8].

Author: I don't think the user really needs to be assigned to a group, right? The check aggregate plugin doesn't use a group, so I didn't use one here either. I can update this if "group" is not correct.

Reviewer: You are correct, a group assignment is not required.

- A [role][4] with get, list, and delete permissions for resources within the `default` [namespace][9].

> - A [role binding][5] that ties the role to the user's group.

Reviewer: Since we are not required to have a group, this should be "ties the role to the user."

- An [API key][12] for the user.

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: To use a service account to manage Sensu resources in more than one namespace, create a [cluster role](../rbac/#cluster-role-example) instead of a role and a [cluster role binding](../rbac/#cluster-role-binding-example) instead of a role binding.
{{% /notice %}}

1. Create a user with the username `ec2-service`:

   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl user create ec2-service --password='password'
{{< /code >}}

   This command creates the following user definition:
   {{< language-toggle >}}
{{< code yml >}}
---
type: User
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  name: ec2-service
spec:
  disabled: false
  username: ec2-service
{{< /code >}}
{{< code json >}}
{
  "type": "User",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "ec2-service"
  },
  "spec": {
    "disabled": false,
    "username": "ec2-service"
  }
}
{{< /code >}}
{{< /language-toggle >}}

2. Create a `ec2-delete` role with get, list, and delete permissions for entity resources within the `default` namespace:

   {{< code shell >}}

> sensuctl role create ec2-delete --verb get,list,delete --resource entity --namespace default

Reviewer: The resource should be "entities"

{{< /code >}}

   This command creates the role that has the permissions your service account will need:
   {{< language-toggle >}}
{{< code yml >}}
---
type: Role
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  created_by: admin
  name: ec2-delete
  namespace: default
spec:
  rules:
  - resource_names: null
    resources:

>     - entity

Reviewer: entities

Read [the asset reference](../../../plugins/assets#dynamic-runtime-asset-builds) for more information about dynamic runtime asset builds.
{{% /notice %}}

## Configure an EC2 handler for the service account

To configure the EC2 handler, you will need AWS account credentials and details for the AWS instance you want to manage, like the AWS instance ID.
You will also need the API key for the `ec2-service` user.

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: Use [secrets management](../../manage-secrets/secrets-management/) to configure environment variables for your AWS access and secret keys and the `ec2-service` user's API key and avoid exposing this sensitive information by listing it directly in the EC2 handler definition.<br><br>
The [Sensu Go EC2 Handler's Bonsai page](https://bonsai.sensu.io/assets/sensu/sensu-ec2-handler#environment-variables) includes an example for configuring secrets definitions with Sensu's built-in [`env` secrets provider](../../manage-secrets/secrets-providers/#env-secrets-provider-example).
{{% /notice %}}

In the following code, replace the placeholders for these attributes with valid values:

> - `aws-region`: the AWS region where your EC2 instance is located.

Author: Can you specify more than one region in a comma-separated list or something like that?

Reviewer: No, you cannot.

- `aws-instance-id-label`: the Sensu entity label that contains the AWS instance ID.

> If your AWS EC2 instance entities do not include labels that specify the instance ID, use `aws-instance-id` instead and specify the AWS instance IDs themselves.

Author: Again here, I'm guessing it's possible to list more than one instance ID (if you aren't going to use the name of the label). Is this accurate?

Reviewer: No, so that should be singular "AWS instance ID itself."

- `sensu-api-url`: the Sensu API URL.

Then, run this command with your valid values in place to create the handler defintion:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< code text "YML" >}}
cat << EOF | sensuctl create
---
type: Handler
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: sensu-ec2-handler
spec:
  type: pipe
  runtime_assets:
    - sensu/sensu-ec2-handler
  filters:
    - is_incident
    - not_silenced
  command: >-
    sensu-ec2-handler
    --aws-region region
    --aws-instance-id-label aws-instance-id

>     --aws-allowed-instance-states pending,running

Author: I assumed that these are the states you wouldn't want to delete, but I'm not 100% sure. Should this just be "running" instead?

Author: Also, it seems obvious but I should probably point out that users can customize this list with any of the states the asset permits.

Reviewer: Yes, these are the states that you wouldn't want to delete.

Yes, good idea on pointing out the list can be customized.

>     --sensu-api-url http://localhost:8080

Author: Should this be the complete entities API URL?

Reviewer: No, just the base of the URL is fine the remainder gets constructed based on the event.

    --aws-allowed-instance-states pending,running
    --sensu-api-url http://localhost:8080
  secrets:
    - name: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
      secret: aws_access_key_id
    - name: AWS_SECRET_KEY
      secret: aws_secret_key
    - name: SENSU_API_KEY
      secret: sensu_api_key
EOF
{{< /code >}}

{{< code text "JSON" >}}
cat << EOF | sensuctl create
{
  "type": "Handler",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "namespace": "default",
    "name": "sensu-ec2-handler"
  },
  "spec": {
    "type": "pipe",
    "runtime_assets": [
      "sensu/sensu-ec2-handler"
    ],
    "filters": [
      "is_incident",
      "not_silenced"
    ],
    "command": "sensu-ec2-handler --aws-region us-east-2 --aws-instance-id-label aws-instance-id --aws-allowed-instance-states pending,running --sensu-api-url http://localhost:8080",
    "secrets": [
      {
        "name": "AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID",
        "secret": "aws_access_key_id"
      },
      {
        "name": "AWS_SECRET_KEY",
        "secret": "aws_secret_key"
      },
      {
        "name": "SENSU_API_KEY",
        "secret": "sensu_api_key"
      }
    ]
  }
}
EOF
{{< /code >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

> The handler will use the `ec2-service` user's API key to check the specified AWS EC2 instance and remove the instance if its status is not "pending" or "running."

Reviewer: I would re-word this slightly.  It currently reads like the API key is used with AWS as well, which is not correct.  How about  something to this effect:

The handler will use the provided AWS credentials to check the specified EC2 instance.  If the instance's status is not "pending" or "running" it will then use the `ec2-service` user's API key to remove the corresponding entity.

Author: Yes, that is much better. Thank you!

> The handler will use the `ec2-service` user's API key to check the specified AWS EC2 instance and remove the instance if its status is not "pending" or "running."

Author: ```suggestion
The handler will use the provided AWS credentials to check the specified EC2 instance.
If the instance's status is not "pending" or "running," the handler will use the `ec2-service` user's API key to remove the corresponding entity.
```

This guide requires a running Sensu backend and a sensuctl instance configured to connect to the backend as an [`admin` user][2].

## Create a limited service account

A limited service account requires these resources:

- A [user][7] assigned to a [group][8].
- A [role][4] with get, list, and delete permissions for resources within the `default` [namespace][9].
- A [role binding][5] that ties the role to the user's group.

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: If you will use the service account to manage Sensu resources in more than one namespace, create a [cluster role][10] instead of a role.
To grant cluster-wide permissions, create a [cluster role binding][11] instead of a role binding.
{{% /notice %}}

1. Create a user with the username `ec2-service` and assign it to the group `ec2`:

   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl user create ec2-service --password='password' --groups=ec2
{{< /code >}}

   This step creates the service account itself and the group that will have the required permissions.

2. Create a `ec2-delete` role with get, list, and delete permissions for all resources (`*`) within the `default` namespace:

   {{< code shell >}}

> sensuctl role create ec2-delete --verb=get,list,delete --resource=* --namespace=default

Author: Resource should be limited to entities.

{{< /code >}}

   This step creates the role that has the permissions your service account will need.

3. Create an `ec2-service-delete` role binding to assign the `ec2-delete` role to the `ec2` group:

   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl role-binding create ec2-service-delete --role=ec2-delete --group=ec2
{{< /code >}}

   This steps creates the role binding that ties the correct permissions (via the `ec2-delete` role) with your service account (via the group `ec2`).

The `ec2-service` limited service account, with permission to get, list, and delete all resources within the `default` namespace, is now ready to use.

## Use the service account to remove AWS EC2 instances

> TODO: Need help to understand how the limited service account concept applies to the EC2 integration

Author: Need a user to attach and API key to. The API key allows you to hit the API.
EC2 uses the API to delete or create entities. Only need the API key to use the EC2 handler

Service account == limits exposure if API key is compromised for example.

Need to add a step 4 to create an API key (see https://github.com/sensu/sensu-aggregate-check#rbac) -- these steps should be in the EC2 handler -- assume they also apply.

Sensu admin creates the user, role, role binding, etc. The EC2 handler uses the API key that is assigned to the EC service user, and that's how the EC2 service account is "controlling" the handler.
